This is the AB testing 343 podcast a podcast where we ask one of the three listeners of the AB testing podcast
three questions about almost anything
ABT 343 is a fun slice of what's going on in the world of modern testing. Let's get started
Hey everyone. It's been a long time. We're back for an ABT
343 where we asked one of our three podcast listeners three questions about themselves and
today we have the I think world renowned but we'll let him speak to that but we have
Danny fought here. Hey Danny. Welcome. Hi there. I think the world has mostly forgotten about me, but
Thanks for that shout out. I I do not think so. I do not think so. I
Have some questions for you, but I want to establish some context first
Well, actually first even before I get to the context question the pre pre question is how are you doing?
How are you surviving the work from home and the pandemic and all of those things? I
Am doing great. I love working from home
I've done it full-time before and I'm doing it, you know practically full-time right now
I'm doing great and I can't really I feel bad saying that because some people aren't doing great
So I just got a promotion at work. I'm doing better there than I ever have before
Congratulations. Thank you
I had put for all those people who are looking for a job, you know, I feel for you. I'm sorry
So I can't feel too good about my successes, I guess
But yeah, I am doing great except for you know
Worried about staying alive and my friends and family, you know staying alive and healthy
it sounds like we're in a lot of the same boat and I have to remind myself and and I don't have to anymore but
I just remember that's what I meant to say. I remember that I am in a very privileged position right now
Where I can work full-time from home our company my part of the company especially is doing well
better than expected because people are home playing games and
I'm just in a very fortunate position. So I'm thankful for that and
Again job going well here and trying to stay alive. So
What is it just for some context here's the actual pre-question
What do you do?
What kind of what's the cat give me and the listeners some context on?
What's your day-to-day like or however you want to describe it? Well first I want to mention in terms of privilege
I am an old white man and what the heck am I doing here?
Someone else could be here
increasing our diversity
And I am proud that we've had some good diversity on AB 2 3 4 3
But every once in a while we do have an old white man on so so yes
Make sure we aren't exclusively old white men
Okay, good. If there's anything I can do to bring people up and then I'm all ears. I'm trying to figure out how to do that
exactly
So what what do I do?
And it's I think thanks to you really and and Brent
My title that I give myself on LinkedIn is I am a software generalist
I do whatever needs to be done. Whatever people are willing to pay for basically
so I
Try to do those unique things that no one else is doing or is willing to do or knows how to do
So that's the snarky answer
What do I do day to day just in the last month or so I'm a developer
Senior developer, I guess was my title recently changed to squad lead
So I'm also kind of helping work flow through a squad right now
so and this is a
Devopsies kind of team so we do all kinds of different things so many different things
That I can't even learn how all these tools work that we have to do both to develop features and
Get them tested get them out the door and ask ourselves. Are they working or not? Just
So many different tools. How can I possibly learn how they all work and how to fix them when they break in production?
So it's different every day
Yeah, the trick I found is you don't have to know how all the tools work
You have to be willing to learn how they all work when needed
Yeah, I'm very willing but for the first time I'm feeling overwhelmed
I'm willing to learn one or two new tools, but this is this is a lot of new tools and they're changing
Constantly some of it is cost-cutting as many companies are reducing their costs
I mean we were doing this before the pandemic and before our
Customer base dropped by a very frightening percentage, but you know certainly even more so now
So that means the tool we just sort of learned. Well now it's a different cheaper tool
It is a bit even for me and I welcome change in new things is even for me. It's getting a bit overwhelming
yeah, as you know, I run a DevOps team is for my organization at Unity and
We have had a few of those come our way, too
And they usually involve a migration that my team has to run and man are we tired of migrating stuff
So I think we finally have the big one behind us, so we're pretty happy about that
Oh, yeah, I forgot about the the migrations are part of that from one part of the cloud to another part of the cloud
Because the first place we want it wasn't really the right place and now it needs to be this other place. Oh my goodness
Yeah, we did one a while back which was moving
Well, we thought I don't to be abstract. We changed cloud providers. We moved from AWS to GCP
Google gave us a good deal. I guess I don't know. We just did it
Cool
We talked about generals Brent tonight do and I always call myself a specializing generalist or a generalizing specialist
I forget which one I go back and forth and
I know you have a background like I do being a testing specialist
So I'm curious. What do you miss about being a testing specialist? And
Yeah, what do you miss about being a testing specialist? What do I miss about being a testing specialist?
Well, I guess a couple of things
I miss breaking things on a daily basis. I still get to do some of that because
You know, we are our own QA and
Occasionally I get to bring up a load test tool where you know, that's where you can really break something
And so that's always fun
I miss the community. I mean it's still there most of the people I follow on Twitter are still
Overwhelmingly in the testing QA community
I'm slowly trying to expand my network more in the development area
And I'm finding that I don't think there is quite that tight-knit community. There might be around a particular technology
but
You know just a general community of practice out there in the world
I'm still trying to find some of those to support what I'm doing right now
So I do miss how tight-knit that testing community has has always been really
But in terms of being a tester
I
Can't say I really miss that
Very much, you know besides the fact that breaking things is great
I'm doing okay with what's going on right now and the fact that when I ran that load test
I saw this null pointer exception. I didn't file a bug report. I just fixed it and
Committed the code. So that's that's something I like more about what I'm doing now is I don't have these artificial
Boundaries on what I can and can't work on
Yeah, that's good that it's just tightening up the feedback loop. I think I heard this discussion
It was a while ago maybe years ago
that probably on Twitter because I think we follow a lot of the same people and
Someone was talking about like why isn't there I guess you could say stack overflow as a developer community
But it's it's huge and and it's not really a community
Yeah, I blogged about how that's difficult to get into and and to get the reputation to be even allowed to post the kinds of things
You want to post?
Yeah, it's funny. I have an ever-growing score on
Stack overflow and even a few of the other
similar sites from questions I answered years ago, I probably haven't answered a question anywhere on any of the
overflow sites in
As long as I can remember but ever but everyone's while I go back I see oh my score went up by 100 points
Let me see why and just more up though. It's on the same, you know, 20 questions. I probably answered in my life
Well, yeah, they stay around a long time
Don't they do and I do I can't say after I blogged about that about how it's just really I just gave up
I'm trying to get into that community
There was this big announcement from stack overflow that they were making changes to make it easier and you know
That's probably because of me. I'm pretty sure
Actually, it could be could be not that world renowned but it's fun
I will I will add it to your Wikipedia entry as an accomplishment
So it can be deleted a few weeks later as soon as anyone finds it. Yeah, I've been through that not my own
But others that I've added. Yeah, I went through tangents because they're allowed anywhere with this related ABT
I went through you might have seen this a while ago
I kind of changed gears on this but went through an effort to try and clean up the software testing Wikipedia page
Oh, yeah, I joined in that effort and did a little bit of work there and I think Noah
Had a good suggestion what to do with that. Just let's just
Let's just define a set of soccer a soccer wear
Let's have a Wikipedia page on agile testing and maybe we can actually get use that as a place to talk about the way
Most of us are doing testing and leave the software testing page to those folks
But that page is the software testing pages a lot of changes get rejected
And I'm friends with the main rejecter and so, you know
You know you engaged with the people you're arguing with you didn't rather than the waging war
I mean we even got him to join our select channel
Yep, which is now pretty much dead because I haven't paid attention to it and that's fine because I'm okay with where it's at
I made some changes that really bugged me and
and
Yeah, I haven't checked that in a while
anyway back on track so
You and I have both although I left test and then kind of fell back into it when I first joined Unity and then fell
back away from it, but
So you're a successful developer now successful Generals developer, which in my opinion makes the best developer
Do you wish you would have moved there sooner? Do you wish you'd have moved out of testing and into development sooner in your career?
I actually do
I think I have limited myself by identifying so strongly as a tester and
You know, I've talked about this at the online test conference at the presentation I gave there
I mean that was just really that was who I was I break things and I'm an underdog
You know QA people don't get respect, but that's who I am and I just latched on to that for for way too long
Really, I mean when I consulting business
I was an independent consultant for several years when that was faltering it didn't even really occur to me
Maybe I should apply for development jobs or get some some programming contracts. I'd been a programmer
Since before I was a tester
But I don't know why I just I was just so locked into that identity as a tester
That I couldn't get out of that box and I wish I had my consulting business might still be alive if I've done that
So yeah
There's so many more opportunities if your title is developer that I really have stunted my growth
I'm having great fun now. I'm the old guy and where I work. I'm very glad they don't they don't really seem to discriminate
based on being the guy with
gray hairs in his beard
Which is great, but man if it had been ten years ago
That would be so much more I could grow from there
You know Brent moved away from QA before I did I think at Microsoft and
I'm sure he would make the same claim and there are some things I think he probably the same claim as well that
Some things around systems thinking I could never have got from
Without being a tester about seeing the big picture and understanding how pieces work together
Understanding how software is delivered and then basically I think it helped you become the generalist you are today is what I would say I
Want to also dig in on one thing you said because it struck a nerve or a memory
Because we do see today
Because times are changing more and more
Companies are using fewer test specialists and there are people who cling to that test role. It's their identity
And I'm just curious if you have a message for those people. Oh
goodness, I mean I could just be
I
Could I could do the hard sell and barely be a butt-head and I could say test is dead
It was kind of my message at the online test conference is you get out while you can and that that is kind of my
My message is get out get out while you can but the fact is a lot of people are still
Gainfully employed as testers. There are people getting jobs as testers for the first time and
You know, they're probably gonna be okay
Just fewer of them are gonna be okay than before I can't analyze what those numbers are gonna be
so my personal choice in terms of career opportunity was to broaden it and
I still recommend to people that they take a broader outlook than being a testing specialist
But also I've worked on trying to train
QA people to pick up development skills. I have been successful in that once
I'm very proud of that that person is still working here
and
You know, I don't have a good count on how many of them didn't make that transition there are some that made it to other
roles, but
I would say a pretty big majority of of testing specialists are not
Programmers already and don't want to be programmers and if it's not a job that they would enjoy
It doesn't really make much sense to try to do it. Yeah, I forgot what the question was
We can we can go here for a while because while you were talking about being a generalist and testers and testing
I think what I would encourage a tester to do based on what you said in my my
Interpretation of it is be more of a generalist. Don't be a testing specialist have a test specialty, but be a generalist
It doesn't have to be programming
I think of all the other things that go out in the DevOps world
Which may require some configuration files that may look like code, but there's so much
Technical work and I'm not getting into the whole technical versus non-technical. That's a that's a rat hole not for today
Because all of our work is technical. Anyway, there's
Hooking up static analysis tools adding a tool to a CI system
All these things help out a lot with quality
But they're not testing
One thing I was curious you think about this. I think one thing I would encourage testers to do is
Be a tester be the testing specialist if that's your identity
I'm not I don't want to take that away from you, but I think you are going to be
You're gonna guarantee a better career. I think and maybe have some more fun if you try and generalize a little more as well
What do you think about that advice that I just made up on the spot?
Yeah, that's great. And I can tell a story about that because I actually
earlier on I
Went away from testing when my consulting business
Dried up and I got a call from a recruiter who said hey, do you want to work in doing?
Technical support basically and I said no I'm a tester and then I looked at my finances and I called him back and said
Yes. Yes, I do
So I did that and I did
for a while and
for reasons I left that several years later and
Went straight back to testing because that's what was easy to do
I
Did that at a couple there those lasted like three different jobs lasted about a year and and for various reasons
needed to move on to
to something else and
Then my place I'm at right now. There was an opening as a QA analyst
I've never had that job title before my whole career. It's always been
You know some sort of engineer
But you know, I swallowed my pride
I really liked the company and I said, all right, I'll be a QA analyst. It's contract
So, you know, whatever let's give it a try and for one I was surprised they hired me
No one said overqualified or anything like that. They just said sure. Yeah, you're qualified to do the job and
Started talking to some of the developers on the team
because
You know, this was I guess you would call it
Combined engineer. I don't with the mic, you know, Microsoft term is the Microsoft term was combined engineering
Okay, Brent and I preferred unified. It's like oil and vinegar versus ranch dressing
It's it's the way that you do things if you have testing specialists
That's kind of the way I look at I didn't even really think it was weird that I wasn't on a separate testing team
We were on a team a couple of testers a couple of developers
Yeah, it was just just made sense. But anyways, I started talking to some of the developers. I said hey, you know, I
I think I see a security vulnerability here and let me show you how to set up a debug proxy
modify
The the output that's coming in. Oh, look, you know, here's here's this issue here and you want me to dig into it further and
It turns out one of those guys was pretty influential in the organization and
You know before long I got this offer said hey you need to do something
Like like at least like test automation or something else and so I was able to move up from that pretty quickly. So
You know, I think that kind of fits in with what you're saying
I was in a testing specialist role and
But I had other skills and I found places to use them and without me even trying that led to something else
Now I don't recommend the testing specialist to test automation specialist path and I think you've mentioned that several times before
And by the way at my company, not only do we not have QA people anywhere in my organization
We don't have automation specialist either
So that was also a bit of a dead end
So yeah, definitely if what you're doing is mostly testing
You don't have to change your job title to expand your skills and use some of those skills
Yeah, the titles really don't mean anything
It's about being willing and eager to try different things and try to help in different ways and and just
that attitude for me of always learning, you know, we talked to to merit on the
the A.B. Testing podcast a few weeks ago and
She came across and I described her as being addicted to learning and I think something a
Any generalist actually any knowledge worker should also embrace because that's gonna keep you
Well one employed but more importantly gonna keep you engaged and keep you having fun
I mean talk about privilege not only are we still able to make money during this pandemic and pay our bills
But we get to do something we like
It's fun to do you I have to follow merit. That's not fair
Like the best one you've done I can't I can't follow that
Not that there'll be an A.B. Testing after that Brett and I did a
Recording this morning. And by the way our first ever live stream we decided
Right at 8 o'clock. We recorded that I was gonna live stream it. So I was wondering why people were commenting on that
I missed out
But in terms of learning, yeah, I was I was thinking about what am I learning right now and
Goodness
I've started a couple of
Tracks at work. They're very big on learning. You know, I just spent basically every Friday afternoon is learning
Don't work on any user stories unless that helps you learning. That's our mandate to our whole organization and I love it
That's nice. So I'm using that to improve some of my programming skills while also
pushing forward a
Technology initiative that the whole company is gonna be able to benefit from
But I also just a few days ago started a music theory course on that same platform the company sponsors
but you know in my own time
I'm on a
More than 310 day streak on duolingo learning mostly French but not entirely
I'm not bragging on that
I just I don't know I made a habit and and that once I make a habit it tends to stick and
I'm sure I'm missing something else. Yeah, I had like a
50-day streak on duolingo a while back and then I said I missed a day. I never went back
I feel really bad now. That's too bad. It's not too late to start another streak
I know with a different language in different language every time. Yeah, I've tried four or five. Yeah, I
Had to tell an employee just this week's for about this learning Friday. I had to tell him it's okay
To read this book. I asked you to read during the work day
Encount it as work. It's like really I said, yeah, you can even see you have to sit at your desk
You can sit on your couch and read this book. I want I want to discuss it with you and etc. Etc. It's okay
I can do that. That's weird. I said no, it's not weird. This is this is this is life
Sit on your couch read the book. We'll talk about it next week. Yeah, it's weird that it's weird
But yeah, I used to find a little out of the way corners away from my work area back when I worked in
An office with other people I would go hide and so I could read without being interrupted and then the team made a game out
Of it. I found you that time. Well fine, but you just keep on walking because I'm gonna keep reading
Speaking of books I hear a rumor that you're writing a biography
Tell me about that
It might become what you would call a biography I suppose
so
Yeah, the friend of mine Jerry Weinberg
We it started on a tweet of his that piqued my interest in basically computer history
You know political history the kind that you have to do in school and get a grade on
Not not super interesting but computer history. Oh my goodness and history of other interesting things
That that's really cool stuff. So I got to talking about that and I said, hey Jerry
why don't you write a book because you were there like
The first computer that was ever delivered to San Francisco as far as we can tell
He was the first person to get his hands on it and figure out how to program it
and that's just amazing and
It turns out I wasn't the first person to say hey Jerry, you should write a book and I didn't know at the time
But this was his pat answer and the answer was no you should write a book
Because how could he write all the books that everyone says he should he's he already wrote like 40 plus books
Give the guy a break, right?
About probably 20 them over my bookshelf. Yeah. Yeah, it's good stuff
And so few people know about Jerry Weinberg and you know
The psychology of computer programming and secrets of consulting and are your lights on so much good stuff
In fact one of secrets of consulting because my my organization
In addition to DevOps a lot of folks that work across the org, but it's one of the four or five books
I'll show you they won't see it
But it's always on my always on my table because I just I show people say read this book. Oh, yeah
Good stuff. He told me that that should actually it was the more secrets of consulting should have been the book that went with
I think it's the chain shop workshop
But it was still new at the time and he hadn't switched over but man that that's to get the blue book
That's to get the blue book to the the second secrets of consulting book. It's on the bookshelf. Awesome
So our discussion it kind of morphed and and I realized you know this
This might be more interesting so many history books have been written already about computer specifically even
Let's just make this a biography and he said yeah, if you write it, I will answer your questions one at a time
and I'd be glad to contribute and so
That's how that got kicked off and I've got hundreds of pages of emails between
Jerry and mean at this point by the way, he was so rude as to die in the middle of this project
Dang it
So now I'm continuing on by talking to people who knew him and can give me more information
About him and I'm still filling up another hundreds of pages document that somehow I have to wrangle
into some book chapters right now, it's really just a blog post and
I'm hoping this is gonna spur me to get one out. I've been working on one for more than a year now the next installment
I'm getting really
Really close on it. I've just been a little stuck and and I've read several books in the process
Once I realized that I'm really getting into the computer history part here
That was really why I got started on this and I want to get I think I've got an angle on it
It hasn't really been published before about this crucial transition point between
Well, you know what just just come to my blog and bug me about why I haven't posted it yet and you'll find out
Give you a cliffhanger there. I am
That's so exciting. I'm so happy you're doing that
I'm talking about I'm not sure I'm not sure the order some I need it's like the chronological order
The all of Jerry's books came out in but I know you probably have more than I do
But I have a copy of humanized input, which is
It's like typewritten. The printing is like it's a super cheap publication
But I know that was pretty early on but it's still really valuable. He had a way of writing
Information that just it's amazing how applicable it remains
It's all about it again. It goes back to systems thinking. It's all about
Trying to figure out what the real problem is and solving that. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely
I think I have every one of his books at least one edition of every single one and
a big bibliography where I'm trying to just list all of them and that is a challenge because he's
republished them he split them into several ebooks is this the same book is that and
Some of his books don't have an ISBN or even a publication year. Come on. How long?
Give me something to go with here so I can identify what this thing is in a bibliography. So it's been a challenge
But yeah, I think I've been able to acquire
Every single one and I got started on that when I was researching the triangle problem that everyone thinks Glenn Myers
First wrote about but Jerry told me that no I taught that to Glenn and it's in a book
I can prove that I published it first and I found this book
I think it might have been PL one or somewhere around that era and I
I got this search going at a used bookstore and sure enough
I got a hit on it and I bought the book and there it is the triangle problem before Glenn Myers wrote about it
Wow, and I feel like I've heard that did you blog that story?
I'm sure I did somewhere. Okay. Yeah, I I think I recall
Hearing about that once a while back it tickles a memory
Which could just be my memory playing tricks on me, but I feel like I had heard that
Maybe I am world-renowned if Alan Page has read one of my blog post
No, I read way too much you can know from my five four Fridays that I post I I read I
Read a lot of stuff. Sometimes I skim some stuff
There's usually a half dozen or a dozen articles a week where I really spend time on and they you know, I believe
That good ideas come from getting a lot of ideas and throwing the bad ones away
And also that good ideas come from other other ideas meeting. So I will read
it could be articles around
science or data analysis of Covid or software engineering or testing or systems thinking or
management or leadership
I'm always looking for ideas and not and also
For the critical thinking aspect things I disagree with so I can think about why I disagree with them
And so it helps me understand then from if I don't disagree with an article
Understand what's important to me or at least understand why I don't like it and I could do a big
soapbox on that but I read a lot because it I
Like merit. I like to consider myself addicted to learning. I want to get I'm not nearly at her level of
attacking learning but I
I
Want to take advantage of a brain that still works as long as I can
Awesome. Yeah, and what I'm doing right this second is part of that learning is volunteer to do something
I don't know. I don't know what I got to what I can present for that
But I just sign up for it now
I'm committed and that gets the gears turning and it took a while to figure out what do I want to talk to Alan about?
I know I've been wanting to talk to Alan for a long time
You know that's having that deadline. It's on the calendar
You got to talk to Alan about something and you know, you're bugging me about what's the agenda?
That's typical of what I do
I'll sign up to speak about something at a conference and it's not something I have no idea about but but probably not something
I know enough to really talk about and that's what spurs me to go learn it
It's a challenge to go learn it. That is a fantastic attitude and we managed to
Fill up an ABT 343 with I think some
Information the listeners are really going to appreciate especially the the biography work you talked about that's it. That's
That's gonna cause a buzz. I think cool. Yeah, let me know what you think about it. Tell me which parts you don't like, please
How can I improve on it because it's still very much a work in progress
I'll grab some more information after I say goodbye here, but let's say goodbye to our listeners
thank you for spending some time with me and
answering some questions and
Hope to hear from you more on one of the three dot slack comm and I will be following your blog closely
So thanks Danny. Thanks. Goodbye to all two of you. I'm one. So there's only two others listening
It's only two others. They'll enjoy it though. I promise
cool